RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SCIENCE
TEACHING & LEARNING SYLLABUS
Primary Three to Six
Standard / Foundation
Implementation starting with
2023 Primary Three Cohort
Updated May 2024
©2022 Curriculum Planning and Development Division.
This publication is not for sale. Permission is granted to reproduce
this publication in its entirely for personal or non-commercial
educational use only. All other rights reserved.

-- 1 of 87 --

1
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
PREAMBLE
This Primary Science Syllabus is a foundation for scientific studies at higher levels.
The syllabus has also taken into consideration the desired outcomes of education for
our primary students as well as the national education emphasis.
This syllabus is based on the revised Science Curriculum Framework which
encapsulates the thrust of Science education in Singapore to provide students with a
strong foundation in Science for life, learning, citizenry, and work. The vision of
Science Education in Singapore represented by the three “IN”s—Inspire, Inquire and
Innovate, can be achieved through developing in students a strong grounding in
scientific knowledge, practices and values.
The aims spelt out in the syllabus provide the guiding principles for the suggested
teaching approaches and evaluation methods. Teachers are advised not to follow the
syllabus too rigidly but to exercise their professional judgement in implementing it.
Schemes of work should be developed with the interests and abilities of the students
uppermost in mind. Teachers are encouraged to use a variety of approaches in their
teaching and incorporate ideas and materials from various sources in order to enhance
the learning of Science.

-- 2 of 87 --

2
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
CONTENTS
Page
1. INTRODUCTION 3
1.1 Science Curriculum Framework 4
1.2 21st Century Competencies 8
2. CONTENT 11
2.1 Aims of Primary Science Syllabus 12
2.2 Syllabus Framework 12
3. PEDAGOGY 22
3.1 Teaching and Learning of Primary Science 23
3.1.1 Students as Inquirers 23
3.1.2 Teachers as Facilitators
- Singapore Teaching Practice
- e-Pedagogy
25
4. ASSESSMENT 32
4.1 Assessment and Feedback 33
4.2 Guidelines for Assessment 35
5. SYLLABUS LEARNING OUTCOMES 36
6. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 81
7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 84

-- 3 of 87 --

3
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 1:
INTRODUCTION
Science Curriculum Framework
21st Century Competencies

-- 4 of 87 --

4
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Science Curriculum Framework
The revised Science Curriculum Framework (see Figure 1) encapsulates the thrust of
Science education in Singapore to provide students with a strong foundation in
Science for life, learning, citizenry, and work.
Science for Life and Society in the centre circle captures the essence of the goals
of Science education.
Figure 1: The Science Curriculum Framework
Our students are diverse, with different needs, interests, and aptitudes for Science.
Given the diversity of our students and the needs of our country, the twin goals of
Science education are to:
• Enthuse and nurture all students to be scientifically literate, so that they are able
to make informed decisions and take responsible actions in their daily lives; and
• Provide strong Science fundamentals for students to innovate and pursue STEM
for future learning and work. Surrounding the centre circle are the three “IN”s —

-- 5 of 87 --

5
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Inspire, Inquire and Innovate—which represents the vision for Science Education
and encapsulates the overall experience of our students in Science education:
(a) INspired by Science. Students enjoy learning Science and are fascinated by
how everyday phenomena have scientific connections and how Science helps
solve many of our global challenges. They regard Science as relevant and
meaningful, appreciating how Science and Technology have transformed the
world, and improved our lives. Students are open to the possibility of pursuing
Science-related careers as a viable profession to serve the good of society.
(b) INquire like Scientists. Students have strong fundamentals in Science and
possess the spirit of scientific inquiry. They are able to engage confidently in
the Practices of Science, grounded in the knowledge, issues and questions that
relate to the roles played by Science in daily life, society and the environment.
They can discern, weigh alternatives, and evaluate claims and ideas critically,
based on logical scientific evidence and arguments, and yet be able to suspend
judgement where there is lack of evidence.
(c) INnovate using Science. Students apply Science to generate creative solutions
to solve real-world problems, ranging from those affecting everyday lives to
complex problems affecting humanity. It is envisaged that there will be a strong
pipeline of students who can contribute towards STEM research, innovation,
and enterprise.
The outer ring represents the domains that make up the strong science fundamentals:
Core Ideas of Science, Practices of Science and the Values, Ethics & Attitudes in
Science.
• Core Ideas of Science. The Core Ideas are the distilled ideas central to Science.
The Core Ideas help students see the coherence and conceptual links within and
across the different sub-disciplines of Science (i.e., Biology, Chemistry, and
Physics). The Core Ideas also provide a framework to make visible students’
progression in Science understanding across the different levels of education.
• Practices of Science. The Practices consist of three components:
(a) Demonstrating Ways of Thinking and Doing in Science (WOTD);
(b) Understanding the Nature of Scientific Knowledge (NOS); and

-- 6 of 87 --

6
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
(c) Relating Science, Technology, Society and Environment (STSE).
They represent the set of established procedures and processes associated with
scientific inquiry, what scientific knowledge is and how it is generated and
established, and how Science is applied in society respectively. The Practices
serve to highlight that the discipline of Science is more than the acquisition of a
body of knowledge (e.g., scientific facts, concepts, laws, and theories); it is also a
way of thinking and doing. It is important to appreciate that the three components
representing the cognitive, epistemic, and social aspects of the Practices are
intricately related (see Figure 2).
• Values, Ethics and Attitudes in Science. Although Science uses objective methods
to arrive at evidence-based conclusions, it is in fact a human enterprise conducted
in particular social contexts which involves consideration of values and ethics. The
intent of fostering an awareness and appreciation of values in the curriculum is to
sensitise our students to the ethical implications of the application of Science in
society. Thus, Science education needs to equip students with the ability to
articulate their ethical stance as they participate in discussions about socio-
scientific issues that involve ethical dilemmas, with no single right answer.
The pair of hands represents the roles of students as inquirers , supported by teachers
and partners as facilitators of the students’ learning experiences. The partnership of
learning and teaching goes beyond the students and teachers to include other partners
who can facilitate learning in various contexts to help students appreciate the
application of Science in their daily lives, society, and the environment.

-- 7 of 87 --

7
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Demonstrating WOTD
Investigating Evaluating and
Reasoning
Developing and
Evaluating
Solutions
Posing questions
and defining
problems
Communicating,
evaluating and
defending ideas with
evidence
Using and
developing models
Designing
investigations
Making informed
decisions and taking
responsible actions
Constructing
explanations and
designing solutions
Conducting
experiments and
testing solutions
Analysing and
interpreting data
Understanding NOS
Science is an evidence-based, model-building enterprise to
understand the real world.
Science assumes natural causes, order and consistency in natural
systems.
Scientific knowledge is generated through established procedures
and critical debate.
Scientific knowledge is reliable, durable, open to change in light of
new evidence.
Relating STSE
There are risks and benefits associated with the applications of Science in society.
Applications of Science often have ethical, social, economic and environmental implications.
Application of new scientific discoveries often drive technological advancement while
advances in technology enable scientists to make new or deeper inquiry.
Figure 2: The Practices of Science
Practices
of Science
Relating
Science-Technology-Society-Environment

-- 8 of 87 --

8
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
1.2 21st Century Competencies
To prepare our students for the future, a Framework for 21st Century Competencies
(21CC) and Student Outcomes was developed by MOE (see Figure 3). This 21CC
framework guides the purposive development, through the total curriculum, of key
competencies and mindsets for students to thrive and contribute in the 21st century.
Refer to the 21CC OPAL2.0 Site for more information.
Figure 3: Framework for 21st Century Competencies and Student Outcomes
In Singapore, science education plays a crucial role in equipping our students to
understand and tackle the myriad of local and global challenges of the 21st century.
These challenges include issues such as climate change, technological disruptions
(e.g. artificial intelligence), and the sustainable management of resources to support
urban development and economic growth. To effectively address these challenges, it
is vital to cultivate scientifically literate citizens who:
• Possess the mindset and practical knowledge of science and its applications to
make informed decisions and take responsible actions in their daily lives.
• Appreciate science as part of humanity’s intellectual and cultural heritage,
recognising the beauty and power of its ideas, and engaging in socio-scientific
issues ethically and in an informed manner.
• Can apply scientific knowledge and skills, as well as embrace scientific attitudes
and mindsets to innovate and explore new frontiers.

-- 9 of 87 --

9
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Engaging our students in the Practices of Science (POS) is aligned with the larger goal
of developing 21CC in our students. The emerging 21CC (E21CC) that can be most
naturally developed through primary science are Critical Thinking and
Communication, while the development of the other E21CCs depends on the
contexts of lessons. Intentional development of E21CC through science makes
learning meaningful and facilitates the transfer of learning.
Next, we illustrate how Critical Thinking and Communication can be developed
through the Primary Science Curriculum.
Critical Thinking
Critical Thinking refers to the ability to exercise sound reasoning and metacognitive
thinking to interpret and analyse information and evidence, draw conclusions, make
decisions, and solve problems.
Developmental
Milestones
Examples of how it could look like in a primary
science classroom
• Use evidence to
explain reasoning
and decisions.
• Reflect on thoughts,
attitudes, behaviour
and actions during
learning
experiences, and
determine the
modifications
required.
Students could be given opportunities to:
• analyse observations and data to infer patterns and
relationships or explain findings.
• seek clarification to deepen understanding of science
concepts and assess reasonableness, accuracy and
quality of information and ideas.
• state or select options based on appropriate criteria
with reasons considering consequences and values.
Example:
In the topic of Energy Forms and Uses (Light), students
explore variables affecting sizes of shadows. Through
hands-on investigations using the SPARKLE Kit,
students record their observations on how the light
source-object and object-screen distances affect the
sizes of shadows. They analyse the data collected and
draw conclusions about variables affecting the sizes of
shadows based on the evidence collected and classroom
discussions. From the investigations, they reflect on the
factors affecting sizes of shadows and draw connections
to the concept of light travelling in straight lines.

-- 10 of 87 --

10
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Communication
Effective communication refers to the ability to convey information and exchange ideas
clearly and coherently through multimodal ways for specific purposes, audiences and
contexts.
Developmental
Milestones
Examples of how it could look like in a primary
science classroom
• Convey and assess
information and
ideas for relevance,
while considering the
specific purpose and
context of
communication.
• Respond with
respect and
empathy, appreciate
different
perspectives during
interactions.
Students could be given opportunities to:
• communicate findings and information through various
forms (e.g., written, verbal, pictorial, tabular or
graphical) using clear explanation and reasoning.
• seek feedback and/or acceptance of explanations or
solutions within the class or wider community.
Example:
In the topic of Human System (Digestive System),
students apply what they have learnt on the digestive
system and use different representations (e.g., written,
verbal, pictorial, physical model) to create models of the
digestive system. Students make use of the models to
communicate the functions of the different parts of the
digestive system. They provide respectful feedback to
help one another improve how they explain and represent
the parts and functions of the system.

-- 11 of 87 --

11
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 2:
CONTENT
Aims of Primary Science Syllabus
Syllabus Framework

-- 12 of 87 --

12
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
2. CONTENT
2.1 Aims of Primary Science Syllabus
The Primary Science Syllabus aims to provide students with experiences/
opportunities to:
• Build on their interest and stimulate their curiosity about themselves and their
environment.
• Acquire basic scientific concepts to help them understand themselves and the
world around them.
• Develop skills, dispositions, and attitudes for scientific inquiry.
• Apply scientific concepts and skills in making responsible decisions.
• Appreciate how Science influences people and the environment.
2.2 Syllabus Framework
The Primary Science Syllabus comprises the Core Ideas, Practices and Values, Ethics
and Attitudes.
Core Ideas
The Core Ideas in this syllabus are organised as themes, which students can relate to
in their everyday experiences, and to the commonly observed phenomena in nature.
The aim is to enable students to appreciate the links between different themes/topics
and thus allow the integration of scientific ideas. The five themes chosen are:
Diversity, Cycles, Systems, Energy, and Interactions. These themes encompass
a core body of concepts in both the life and physical Sciences. This body of concepts
has been chosen because it provides a broad-based understanding of the
environment, and it will help build a foundation upon which students can rely on for
further study.
Although the content of the syllabus is organised into five themes, the topics under
each theme are not to be viewed as compartmentalised blocks of knowledge. In
general, there are no clear boundaries between these themes. There may be topics
common to different themes. Hence, a conscious effort is needed to demonstrate the

-- 13 of 87 --

13
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
relationship between themes whenever possible. To help teachers and students
appreciate and understand the themes, essential takeaways and key inquiry questions
are included for each theme. These essential takeaways and questions can guide
teachers and engage students in uncovering the important ideas at the heart of each
theme. They can also use these questions to raise more specific questions for the
respective topics under each theme.
Another feature of the syllabus is the spiral approach. This is characterised by the
revisiting of concepts and skills at different levels and with increasing depth. The spiral
approach allows the learning of scientific concepts and skills to match students’
cognitive development. It therefore helps students build upon their existing
understanding of concepts and facilitates the gradual mastery of skills.
The focus of each theme is given below.
Diversity
There is a great variety of living and non-living things around us. Organising this
diversity of things helps us better understand the world in which we live. There are
common threads that connect all living things and unifying factors in the diversity of
non-living things that help us classify them. This theme helps us appreciate the
importance of maintaining diversity. The essential takeaways and key inquiry
questions for “Diversity” are:
Essential Takeaways Key Inquiry Questions
• There is a great variety of living and
non-living things around us.
• We classify living and non-living things
based on their similarities and
differences.
• Maintaining the diversity of living and
non-living things is important for
survival.
• What can we observe around
us?
• How can we classify the great
variety of living and non-living
things?
• Why is it important to maintain
diversity?

-- 14 of 87 --

14
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles
There are cycles or repeated patterns of change in nature. Understanding cycles, such
as life cycles and the water cycle, helps us predict events and processes and to
appreciate the Earth as a self-sustaining system that supports life. The essential
takeaways and key inquiry questions for “Cycles” are:
Essential Takeaways Key Inquiry Questions
• There are repeated patterns of change
around us.
• Understanding cycles helps us to make
predictions about events and processes
around us.
• What makes a cycle?
• How does a cycle help us
predict events and processes?
• Why are cycles important to
life?
Systems
A system is a whole consisting of parts that work together to perform function(s). There
are systems in nature such as plant and human systems; as well as man-made
systems such as electrical systems. Understanding these systems allows us to
appreciate how parts influence and work together to perform function(s). The essential
takeaways and key inquiry questions for “Systems” are:
Essential Takeaways Key Inquiry Questions
• A system is made of different parts.
Each part has its own unique function.
• Different parts of a system influence
and work together to perform
function(s).
• What is a system?
• How do different parts / systems
work together to perform
function(s)?
• Why is it important to
understand how parts/ systems
work together?

-- 15 of 87 --

15
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions
Interactions are the actions between and within living and non-living systems in the
environment. Understanding these interactions helps us see relationships between the
factors/variables in the environment. We can also appreciate the consequences of our
actions and play our part in conservation. The essential takeaways and key inquiry
questions for “Interactions” are:
Energy
Energy is required for things to work in everyday life. We use various forms of energy
for many different purposes. All living things obtain energy and use it to carry out life
processes. Understanding this theme allows us to appreciate the importance and uses
of energy and the need to conserve it. The essential takeaways and key inquiry
questions for “Energy” are:
Essential Takeaways Key Inquiry Questions
• Energy is required for things to work.
• There are various forms of energy and
they can be converted from one form
to another.
• Some sources of energy can be
depleted and we play an important role
in energy conservation.
• What are the different forms of
energy around us?
• How is energy used in everyday
life?
• Why is it important to conserve
energy?
Essential Takeaways Key Inquiry Questions
• There are interactions among us, living
and non-living things in the
environment.
• Interactions within the environment can
have positive or negative impacts.
• Conservation is important to ensure
continuity of life and availability of
resources.
• What are the types of
interactions around us?
• How do interactions affect the
environment and us?
• Why is it important for us to
conserve the environment?

-- 16 of 87 --

16
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Practices
Teachers are encouraged to engage students in the Practices of Science and help
them understand how scientific knowledge is developed through inquiry. One of the
components of Practices of Science is the Ways of Thinking and Doing. It supports
students in learning Science as inquirers and involves various skills and processes.
For example, the skill of generating possibilities can be used when students are
engaged in posing questions and defining problem or when they are constructing
explanations and designing solutions.
There is no one definite sequence of priority among the Ways of Thinking and Doing.
For instance, posing questions and defining problems may arise when one is analysing
and interpreting data or conducting investigations.
Table 1 below describes each Way of Thinking and Doing and its progression for
students by the end of Primary 4 and Primary 6. The progression provides a coherent
and systematic development of skills and processes across levels.
Ways of thinking and doing
By the end of P4,
students should
be able to:
By the end of P6,
students should
be able to:
Posing
questions and
defining
problems
This involves
asking questions
to make sense of
the world (students
themselves and
the environment)
around them.
• Ask questions out of curiosity or to
deepen understanding.
• Ask questions which can be
investigated.
Designing
investigations
This involves
formulating
questions or
hypotheses and
designing fair tests
to find out answers
to the questions or
to verify the
hypotheses.
• Recognise a fair
test (changed/
unchanged
variables).
• Design a fair test
(changed/
unchanged
variables).

-- 17 of 87 --

17
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Ways of thinking and doing
By the end of P4,
students should
be able to:
By the end of P6,
students should
be able to:
Conducting
investigations
and testing
solutions
This involves
conducting
investigations to
gather data
through making
observations using
our senses or
instruments. This
also involves
knowing the
functions and
limitations of
various apparatus,
developing the
ability to select and
handle them
appropriately for
various tasks.
• Use senses,
apparatus, and
equipment to
gather data.
• Investigate to
find out answers
to questions
(guided
investigations).
• Record and/or
compare
observations/
data with
suggested
scaffolding.
• Use and select
appropriate
apparatus and
equipment to
gather data.
• Investigate to find
out answers to
questions
(guided and open
investigations).
• Record and/or
compare
observations/
data using a
variety of forms
e.g., notes,
drawings, and
charts.
Analysing and
interpreting data
This involves
identifying and
explaining the
parts of objects,
information
(presented in
different forms), as
well as the
patterns and
relationships
between these
parts.
• Simple analysis
of data and
information in
representations
(e.g., tables, bar
and line graphs,
charts, and
diagrams) to
infer patterns
and
relationships or
explain findings.
• Analysis of data
and information
in
representations
(e.g., tables, bar
and line graphs,
charts, and
diagrams) to infer
patterns and
relationships or
explain findings.

-- 18 of 87 --

18
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Ways of thinking and doing
By the end of P4,
students should
be able to:
By the end of P6,
students should
be able to:
Communicating,
evaluating and
defending ideas
with evidence
• This involves
receiving and
presenting
information and
ideas in various
forms. This also
involves
assessing the
reasonableness,
accuracy and
quality of
information and
ideas.
• Communicate (e.g., written, verbal,
pictorial, tabular or graphical) clear
explanation and reasoning.
• Seek clarification to deepen
understanding.
Making
informed
decisions and
taking
responsible
actions
This involves
establishing and
applying criteria to
select from among
seemingly equal
alternatives. The
process of
establishing
criteria involves
consideration of
the consequences
and values.
• State or select options based on
appropriate criteria with reasons.
Using and
developing
models
This involves using
multiple
representations to
describe, explain
and predict
phenomena.
• Use multiple representations (e.g.,
pictures, charts, diagrams, tables,
graphs) to explain concepts, describe
and predict phenomena.

-- 19 of 87 --

19
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Ways of thinking and doing
By the end of P4,
students should
be able to:
By the end of P6,
students should
be able to:
Constructing
explanations
and designing
solutions
This involves
generating ideas
and justifying them
to remedy or alter
a problem
situation.
• Construct possible explanations and
generate ideas.
Table 1: Ways of Thinking and Doing

-- 20 of 87 --

20
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Values, Ethics and Attitudes
In learning Science, the adoption of certain mental attitudes such as Curiosity,
Creativity, Integrity, Objectivity, Open-mindedness, Resilience, Responsibility and
Healthy Scepticism is advocated.
• Curiosity
Desiring to explore the environment and question what is found.
• Creativity
Seeking innovative and relevant ways to solve problems.
• Integrity
Handling and communicating data and information with honesty.
• Objectivity
Seeking data and information to validate observations and explanations without
bias.
• Open-mindedness
Accepting all knowledge as tentative and suspending judgement. Tolerance for
ambiguity. Willingness to change views if the evidence is convincing.
• Resilience
Not giving up on the pursuit for answers/ solutions. Willingness to take risks and
embrace failure as part of the learning process.
• Responsibility
Showing care and concern for living things and awareness of our responsibility for
the quality of the environment.
• Healthy Scepticism
Questioning the observations, methods, processes, and data, as well as trying to
review one’s own ideas.

-- 21 of 87 --

21
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Table 2 shows an overview of the topics found in the Primary Science Syllabus. The
topics are organised in levels to ensure a coherent and meaningful development of
concepts as students progress from Primary 3 to Primary 6.
Levels P3 P4 P5 P6
Themes Diversity . Cycles . Systems . Interactions . Energy
Topics • Diversity of
living and non-
living things
(General
characteristics
and
classification)
• Diversity of
materials
• Cycles in plants
and animals
(Life cycles)
• Interaction of
forces
(Magnets)
• Plant
system
(Plant parts
and
functions)
• Human
system
(Digestive
system)
• Cycles in
matter and
water
(Matter)
• Energy
forms and
uses (Light)
• Energy
forms and
uses (Heat)
• Cycles in plants
and animals
(Reproduction)
• Cycles in
matter and
water (Water)
• Plant system
(Respiratory
and circulatory
systems)
• Human system
(Respiratory
and circulatory
systems)
• Electrical
system
• Energy forms
and uses
(Photosynthesis)
• Energy
Conversion
• Interaction of
forces (Frictional
force,
gravitational
force, elastic
spring force)
• Interactions
within the
environment
Topics which are underlined are not required for students taking Foundation Science.
Table 2: An Overview of the topics in the Primary Science Syllabus

-- 22 of 87 --

22
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 3:
PEDAGOGY
Teaching and Learning of Primary Science
Students as Inquirers
Teachers as Facilitators
- Singapore Teaching
Practice
- e-Pedagogy

-- 23 of 87 --

23
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
3. PEDAGOGY
3.1 Teaching and Learning of Primary Science
We envision students to enjoy learning Science and to value Science in their everyday
lives (e.g., to make informed decisions and take responsible actions, such as in
personal health and caring for the environment).
We believe that all students are curious and want to explore and learn about things
around them. The Science Curriculum seeks to nurture students as inquirers by
providing opportunities for them to explore and to appreciate the role of Science for
Life and Society.
To nurture students as inquirers, teachers are key in facilitating a variety of learning
experiences to support students in understanding core ideas, developing practices
and cultivating values, ethics, and attitudes. These learning experiences can be
situated in various authentic contexts in both formal and informal settings. The
experiences should inspire students to inquire and innovate. Teachers can better
design and enact engaging learning experiences by drawing on the Knowledge Bases
(for subject matter and goals, refer to sections 1 and 2) and Pedagogical Practices in
the Singapore Teaching Practice.
3.1.1 Students as Inquirers
Learning takes place with the development of skills and dispositions in our students.
The Primary Science Curriculum seeks to leverage students’ interest and stimulate
their curiosity about themselves and their environment. They can be provided with
learning experiences that allow them to pose questions, be involved in discussions on
socio-scientific issues or be engaged in problem solving, with the use of authentic
contexts. Through these learning experiences, students are likely to:
• Ask questions as they engage with an event, phenomenon, problem, or issue. They
can ask questions which they are interested to find out. The questions can guide
the design of investigations (e.g., to find out how shadows are formed) so that they
can draw valid conclusions and solve problems.

-- 24 of 87 --

24
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
• Gather evidence in response to their questions. They can gather evidence through
observations and/or use of simple equipment to collect either qualitative or
quantitative data. After the data collection, they can present the evidence gathered
in appropriate forms (e.g., in tables, charts, graphs) to facilitate the analysis of
patterns and relationships.
• Formulate explanations based on the evidence gathered. They can explain using
their own words using the evidence gathered (e.g., qualitative descriptions of
observations or quantitative data collected over a time interval).
• Connect their explanations to various contexts. They can explain how the concepts
are related or applied in various examples and contexts around them and in the
environment. This helps them to appreciate how Science is relevant in everyday
life.
• Communicate and justify their explanations. They can communicate using various
types of representations. For example, they can use texts, drawings, charts, tables
or graphs or a combination of representations to support their explanations.
• Reflect on their learning and progress. They can reflect on their learning (e.g., what
they have learnt, how they would like to improve, what they are curious about) in
different ways (e.g., asking questions, journalling). These reflections help them to
take greater ownership of their own learning and develop deeper conceptual
understanding.
Learning takes place individually and collaboratively, as students construct and co-
construct meaning from knowledge and experiences. In the learning of Science,
students should have opportunities to:
Learn with Others. In understanding and applying concepts and skills, students can
be engaged in pair, group or whole class interactions. For example, they can share
their prior knowledge on what they know about shadows in pairs. Students then
acquire new knowledge about shadows through exploration in a collaborative hands-
on learning experience. Students can also relate to the natural phenomena and
applications of light in everyday life through whole class sharing.
Learn using Different Resources. Students can also learn through various print
resources (e.g., stories in textbooks, experiments in activity books) and online
resources (e.g., animations, interactive objects, and videos in the Singapore Student
Learning Space (SLS)). They can also use everyday materials to test ideas and create
products (e.g., making their own toys).

-- 25 of 87 --

25
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Learn in Various Environments. Students can observe and/or collect data to
understand their environment. For example, they can visit nature parks and the zoo to
observe the diversity of plants and animals. They can also conduct simple experiments
(e.g., to find a material which can be used to make a bottle to keep the drink warm for
a longer time).
The end goal is to have students who enjoy Science and value Science as an
important tool in helping them explore their natural and physical world.
3.1.2 Teachers as Facilitators
In the teaching and learning process, teachers play an important role in stimulating
students’ curiosity about themselves and their environment, as well as encouraging
students to see the value of Science and its applications in their everyday lives.
To do these, teachers should ensure that the learning experiences provided for
students go beyond learning facts and outcomes of scientific investigations. Teachers
should play the role of facilitators to support students as inquirers by providing learning
experiences that vary between guided and open inquiry.
As facilitators, teachers should:
• Provide students with opportunities to ask questions about events/ phenomenon/
problems/ issues that are related to their daily lives, society, and environment.
• Support students in gathering and using evidence.
• Encourage students to formulate and communicate explanations based on
evidence gathered.
• Encourage students to apply concepts learnt in understanding daily
events/phenomenon, finding solutions to problems/issues, and creating products.
• Check on students’ understanding to ascertain if learning has taken place and
provide appropriate and meaningful feedback to address students’ learning gaps.

-- 26 of 87 --

26
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Singapore Teaching Practice
Learning takes place in a caring and safe environment. It is important to build positive
teacher-student relationships to maximise effective teaching and learning (refer to the
Singapore Teaching Practice OPAL Page on Understanding Teaching for more
information).
The Pedagogical Practices (PP) as shown in Figure 4 comprise four fundamental
teaching processes that epitomise good teaching.
Positive Classroom Culture. Teachers can create a conducive environment that
supports student questioning and interactions by building rapport and trust. They can
set clear expectations and articulate students’ roles to facilitate student group work.
They can also introduce classroom routines to maximise student participation in whole
class interactions (e.g., use of small white board for each student to reflect on
individual responses) and provide opportunities for individual student reflection (e.g.,
using “exit cards” to reflect on a learning point) as this develops metacognition and
empowers students to take ownership of their own learning.
Lesson Preparation. Teachers can collaborate in lesson planning. For example, they
can plan and sequence learning experiences for each topic to ensure coherent
development of conceptual understanding and application of concepts to various
contexts. For each lesson, teachers can also explore key questions, instructional
strategies and resources to use, based on students’ conceptions, profiles and needs.
Lesson Enactment. Teachers can use suitable instructional strategies to elicit students’
prior knowledge (e.g., find out what students know and want to know) and capture
their interest (e.g., through a story) at the start of a lesson. To continue engaging
students and maintaining the momentum of the lesson, teachers can use questions to
scaffold or deepen student understanding in either whole class interaction or group
work. It is also important to consolidate students’ learning when concluding the lesson.
Assessment and Feedback. When facilitating students’ learning, teachers can check
for students’ understanding and provide feedback to address their alternative
conceptions. They can also design meaningful assignments for students to reflect on
their own learning, as well as to show and apply their understanding in various contexts.
Assessment and Feedback will be elaborated in the section on Assessment.

-- 27 of 87 --

27
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Figure 4: Pedagogical Practices
Teachers need to exercise professional judgement in enacting the four teaching
processes. They can use a variety of instructional strategies to design meaningful
learning experiences in various authentic contexts to support students as inquirers. A
brief description of each of these instructional strategies is also given below:
Concept Cartoon
In concept cartoons,
minimal language is used.
Visual images are used to
present concepts or
questions relating to one
central idea or word.
Field Trip
A field trip is any outdoor
learning experience which
provides opportunities for
students to explore,
discover and experience
Science in everyday life.
CC

-- 28 of 87 --

28
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Concept Mapping
Concept mapping presents
meaningful relationships
among concepts. Concept
maps are useful in
organising and linking
concepts or ideas.
Games
Games engage students in
play or simulations for the
learning of concepts or
skills. This is useful in
helping students to
visualise or illustrate
objects or processes in the
real world.
Cooperative Learning
In cooperative learning,
activities are structured
such that each student
assumes certain
responsibilities and
contributes to the
completion of tasks. In
working with others,
students are exposed to
different points of views
and solutions in
accomplishing a common
goal.
Investigation
In scientific investigation,
students engage in
experiences that mirror
how scientists think and do
in a decision-making
process, such as
observing, posing
questions and planning or
designing investigations.
Demonstration
Demonstration is
commonly used to scaffold
the learning process. This
approach is recommended
when the learning
experience is not safe or
too complex for students to
set up on their own.
Problem Solving
Problem solving engages
students in finding
solutions to problems by
applying scientific
concepts and skills.
i

-- 29 of 87 --

29
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Projects
Projects allow students to
show understanding and
application of concepts
and skills through creating
and making.
Role Play, Drama, Dance
and Movement
Role play, drama, dance
and movement allow
students to deepen and
express their
understanding of scientific
concepts and processes in
creative ways.
Questioning
Questions are useful tools
in the learning process.
Both teachers and
students should engage in
cycles of questions-
answers-questions
throughout the learning
process.
Stories
Stories of Science in
everyday life and of
scientists can capture
students’ interest and
engage them in talking
about Science. Either the
teacher or students can be
the story creator or teller.
Teachers are also encouraged to leverage the planned learning experiences to
infuse Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and National Education.
Information and
Communication
Technology
ICT supports the students
as inquirers and facilitates
student collaboration and
self-directed learning.
National Education
National Education is
infused into the curriculum
to allow students to see
how scientific phenomena
and developments can
contribute to or affect the
nation.
?
NE

-- 30 of 87 --

30
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Where appropriate, students can be provided with opportunities to cultivate values, ethics
and attitudes which are relevant to the study of Science. Teachers are also encouraged
to incorporate the ethical aspect of Science wherever possible throughout the syllabus.
Values, Ethics and Attitudes
The adoption of certain mental attitudes such as Curiosity, Creativity,
Objectivity, Integrity, Open-mindedness, Resilience, Responsibility and
Healthy Scepticism is advocated. Students can also discuss the ethical
implications of Science and Technology.
In the teaching and learning of Science, teachers are encouraged to use a mix and
match of instructional strategies. Each instructional strategy is not limited to a teaching
process in STP. For example, questioning is relevant in the four teaching processes,
as illustrated below.
• Positive classroom culture: Teachers create a safe environment for students to
ask questions.
• Lesson preparation: Teachers plan key questions that encourage student
thinking and discussion.
• Lesson enactment: Teachers exercise flexibility in asking further questions to
address alternative conceptions or elicit alternative perspectives.
• Assessment and feedback: Teachers use students’ responses to identify
alternative conceptions or plan for the next learning experience.

-- 31 of 87 --

31
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
e-Pedagogy
Science teaching and learning can also be enhanced with technology. Technology can
transform the culture of learning to be more participative, reflective, and connected by
enhancing student engagement, deepening learning, and giving greater student
agency and ownership of learning. Teachers can adopt e-Pedagogy to design a range
of learning experiences for students to develop the knowledge, skills, and dispositions.
Teachers can tap on the Key Applications of Technology (KAT), as shown in Figure
5, to select appropriate technological tools based on their pedagogical affordances
and apply technologies to support student-student interactions and active learning in
Science. For example, online collaboration tools can be used by teachers to facilitate
students’ co-construction of knowledge through scientific experimentation/
investigations (inquiry-based learning) or discussion of application of Science in
everyday contexts. More information can be found on the e-Pedagogy one-stop site.
Figure 5: Key Applications of Technology

-- 32 of 87 --

32
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 4:
ASSESSMENT
Assessment and Feedback
Guidelines for Assessment

-- 33 of 87 --

33
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
4. ASSESSMENT
Assessment is integral to teaching and learning process. In designing assessments,
teachers need to have clarity of purpose. It involves gathering and analysing evidence
about students’ learning through various assessment techniques and making
appropriate educational decisions for teaching and learning. Assessment provides
teachers with information about students’ progress and development in relation to the
learning objectives. With this information, teachers make informed decisions about
what should be done to enhance the learning of the students and to improve teaching
methods.
4.1 Assessment and Feedback
Why Assess?
Assessment measures the extent to which desired knowledge, skills and attitudes are
attained by students. It can serve different purposes in the school and classroom.
Having clarity of purpose is essential for understanding the strengths and limitations
of using a particular source of assessment information for decision-making. While it
complements the teaching and learning process, it also provides formative and
summative feedback to students, teachers, schools, and parents. A balanced
assessment system consists of both Assessment of Learning as well as Assessment
for Learning. Assessments can provide both quantitative and/or qualitative
descriptions of learner performance that give feedback for improving future practices.
• Assessment provides feedback to students, allows them to understand their
strengths and weaknesses. Through assessment, students can monitor their own
performance and progress. It also points them in the direction they should go to
improve further.
• Assessment provides feedback to teachers, enables them to understand the
strengths and weaknesses of their students. It provides information about students’
attainment of learning outcomes as well as the effectiveness of their teaching.
• Assessment provides feedback to schools. The information gathered facilitates
the placement of students in the appropriate course, and the promotion of students

-- 34 of 87 --

34
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
from one level to the next. It also allows the schools to review the effectiveness of
their instructional programmes.
• Assessment provides feedback to parents, allowing them to monitor their child’s
progress through the information obtained.
What and How to Assess?
The aims of the Primary Science Syllabus are for students to acquire Science
concepts, develop skills and cultivate values, ethics and attitudes and apply them in
authentic, relevant daily life contexts. The assessment objectives of the syllabus are
aligned to the three domains in the Science curriculum framework.
As assessment serves many purposes, it is important to match the type of assessment
to the specific purpose for which it is intended. Before making an assessment about a
certain aspect of students’ performance, teachers should ensure that the assessment
mode used will generate information that reflects accurately the aspect of performance
teachers intend to assess.
In the teaching and learning of Science, assessment can take many forms. In addition
to the written tests, teachers can also conduct performance-based assessment using
the following modes:
• Checklists
• Debates
• Drama / Show and Tell
• Games and Quizzes
• Learning Trails
• Model-making
• Posters
• Practicals
• Projects
• Reflections / Journals
• Teacher Observations
Teachers can also assess students’ learning using portfolios. It is a systematic and
purposeful collection of students’ work and provides a comprehensive picture of their
development and progress in the acquisition of knowledge, understanding of scientific

-- 35 of 87 --

35
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
concepts, application of skills, and development of attitudes. Students can select the
pieces which will go into the portfolio which provides opportunity for the students to
have self-evaluation and reflections by revisiting their own portfolio of their work.
The assessment modes listed above are by no means exhaustive. Adopting a variety
of assessment modes enables the teachers to assess different aspects of teaching
and learning.
4.2 Guidelines for Assessment
It is essential for assessment to be aligned to the intended learning outcomes. School-
based assessment provides quantitative and qualitative information about a student’s
progress and development, and such information can be used to inform learning and
shape future teaching and learning practices. Table 3 below presents the
recommended weighting for school-based assessment:
Table 3: Recommended Weighting for School-based Assessment
Written Tests Performance-based
assessments Total
Standard
Science 70% - 85% 15% - 30% 100%
Foundation
Science 70% - 85% 15% - 30% 100%

-- 36 of 87 --

36
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 5:
SYLLABUS
LEARNING OUTCOMES

-- 37 of 87 --

37
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
5. SYLLABUS LEARNING OUTCOMES
About Diversity:
There is a great variety of living and non-living things around
us. Organising this diversity of things helps us better
understand the world in which we live. There are common
threads that connect all living things and unifying factors in
the diversity of non-living things that help us classify them.
This theme helps us appreciate the importance of
maintaining diversity.
Essential Takeaways:
• There is a great variety of living and non-living
things around us.
• We classify living and non-living things based
on their similarities and differences.
• Maintaining the diversity of living and non-living
things is important for survival.
Key Inquiry Questions:
• What can we observe around us?
• How can we classify the great variety of living
and non-living things?
• Why is it important to maintain diversity?

-- 38 of 87 --

38
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Diversity of Living and Non-Living Things (General characteristics and classification) (P3)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Describe the characteristics of living
things.
- Need water, food and air to survive
- Grow, respond and reproduce
• Recognise some broad groups of living
things based on similarities and
differences.
- Plants (flowering, non-flowering)
- Animals (amphibians, birds, fish,
insects, mammals, reptiles)
- Fungi (mould, mushroom, yeast)
- Bacteria
Note:
- Recall of names of specific living things
(e.g., guppy) and their characteristics
(e.g., give birth to young alive) is not
required.
• Observe a variety of living and non-living
things and infer differences between them.
• Classify living things into broad groups (in
plants and animals) based on similarities
and differences of common observable
characteristics.
• Show curiosity by
questioning and exploring
the surrounding living and
non-living things.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
living things.

-- 39 of 87 --

39
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Diversity of Materials (P3)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Relate the use of various types of
materials (wood, metal, ceramic,
rubber, glass, plastic, fabric) to their
physical properties.
• Compare physical properties of materials.
- Strength
- Flexibility
- Ability to float/sink in water
- Waterproof
- Transparency
Note:
- The focus is on how the properties of materials
are used.
- The “strength” of a material is its ability to be
subjected to loads without breaking.
- The “flexibility” of a material is its ability to
bend without breaking.
- The “ability to float on water” refers to whether
an object is able to stay on or near the surface
of water and not sink. (The concept of density
is not required.)
- A material is “waterproof” when it does not
absorb water.
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about the
properties and uses of
materials.

-- 40 of 87 --

40
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Diversity of Materials (P3)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
- The “transparency” of a material refers to
whether the material allows most/ some or no
light to pass through. (The use of terms –
transparent/ translucent/ opaque is not
required.)

-- 41 of 87 --

41
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
About Cycles:
There are cycles or repeated patterns of change in nature.
Understanding cycles, such as life cycles and the water
cycle, helps us predict events and processes and to
appreciate the Earth as a self-sustaining system that
supports life.
Essential Takeaways:
• There are repeated patterns of change around
us.
• Understanding cycles helps us to make
predictions about events and processes around
us.
Key Inquiry Questions:
• What makes a cycle?
• How does a cycle help us predict events and
processes?
• Why are cycles important to life?

-- 42 of 87 --

42
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Life Cycles) (P3)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Show an understanding that different
living things have different life cycles.
- Plants
- Animals
• Observe and compare the life cycles of
plants grown from seeds over a period of
time.
Note:
- The focus is on the stages (seed, young
plant, adult plant) of flowering plants.
Processes in plant reproduction (pollination,
fertilisation, seed dispersal and germination)
are introduced in the topic of Cycles in
Plants and Animals (Reproduction) in P5.
• Observe and compare the life cycles of
animals over a period of time (chicken,
cockroach, frog, grasshopper, beetle,
butterfly, mosquito)
• Show curiosity by
questioning and exploring
the surrounding plants and
animals.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
plants and animals.

-- 43 of 87 --

43
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Reproduction) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that a cell is a basic unit of
life.
• Show an understanding that living
things reproduce to ensure continuity of
their kind and that many characteristics
of an organism are passed on from
parents to offspring.
• Describe processes in the sexual
reproduction of flowering plants.
- Pollination
- Fertilisation (seed production)
- Seed dispersal
- Germination
Note:
- Fertilisation occurs when a male
reproductive cell fuses with a female
reproductive cell.
• Investigate the ways in which plants
reproduce.
- Spores
- Seeds
Note:
- Vegetative propagation methods, such as
stem cutting, are not required.
• Show curiosity by
questioning and exploring
the surrounding plants
and animals.
• Show care and concern
by being responsible
towards plants and
animals.

-- 44 of 87 --

44
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Reproduction) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
- The use of specific terms (“self-
pollination” and “cross-pollination”) to
describe the pollination process is not
required.
- Knowledge of the pollen tube formation
is not required.
- The specific location where fertilisation
takes place in the female reproductive
system is not required.
• Recognise the process of fertilisation in
the sexual reproduction of humans.
Note:
- Fertilisation occurs when a sperm fuses
with an egg.
- The fertilised egg develops in the
womb.
- Students should know that ovaries
produce eggs, and the testes produce
sperms.

-- 45 of 87 --

45
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Reproduction) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
- Foetal development and the mechanism
of obtaining air, food and water through
the umbilical cord are not required.
• Recognise the similarity in terms of
fertilisation in the sexual reproduction of
flowering plants and humans.

-- 46 of 87 --

46
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Reproduction) (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• State the processes in the sexual
reproduction of flowering plants.
- Pollination
- Fertilisation (seed production)
- Seed dispersal
- Germination
Note:
- Fertilisation is the process that leads to
the development of fruits and seeds.
- The use of specific terms (“self-
pollination” and “cross-pollination”) to
describe the pollination process is not
required.
• State the process of fertilisation in the
sexual reproduction of humans.
• Observe and compare the ways in which
plants reproduce.
- Spores
- Seeds
Note:
- Vegetative propagation methods, such as
stem cutting, are not required.
• Show curiosity by
questioning and exploring
the surrounding plants and
animals.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
plants and animals.

-- 47 of 87 --

47
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Plants and Animals (Reproduction) (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
Note:
- Fertilisation occurs when a sperm fuses
with an egg.
- The fertilised egg develops in the womb.
- Students should know that ovaries
produce eggs, and the testes produce
sperms.
- Foetal development and the mechanism
of obtaining air, food and water through
the umbilical cord are not required.

-- 48 of 87 --

48
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Matter and Water (Matter) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• State that matter is anything that has
mass and occupies space.
• Differentiate among the three states of
matter (solid, liquid, gas) in terms of
shape and volume.
• Measure mass and volume using
appropriate apparatus.
• Show curiosity in exploring
matter in the surroundings
and question what they
find.

-- 49 of 87 --

49
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Matter and Water (Water) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that water can exist in three
interchangeable states of matter.
• Show an understanding of how water
changes from one state to another.
- Melting (solid to liquid)
- Freezing (liquid to solid)
- Boiling/Evaporation (liquid to gas)
- Condensation (gas to liquid)
• Show an understanding of the terms
melting point of ice (or freezing point of
water) and boiling point of water.
• Show an understanding of the roles of
evaporation and condensation in the
water cycle.
• Recognise the importance of the water
cycle.
• Compare water in 3 states.
• Investigate the effect of heat gain or loss on
the temperature and state of water.
- When ice is heated, it melts and
changes to water at 0oC.
- When water is cooled, it freezes and
changes to ice at 0oC.
- When water is heated, it boils and
changes to steam at 100oC.
- When steam is cooled, it condenses to
water.
• Investigate the factors which affect the rate
of evaporation.
- Wind
- Temperature
- Exposed surface area
• Show concern for water as
a limited natural resource
and be responsible in
conserving.

-- 50 of 87 --

50
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Matter and Water (Water) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise the importance of water to life
processes.
• Describe the impact of water pollution on
Earth’s water resources.

-- 51 of 87 --

51
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Cycles in Matter and Water (Water) (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that water can exist in three
interchangeable states of matter.
• State how water changes from one state
to another.
- Melting (solid to liquid)
- Freezing (liquid to solid)
- Boiling/Evaporation (liquid to gas)
- Condensation (gas to liquid)
• State the melting point of ice (or freezing
point of water) and boiling point of water.
• Recognise the changes in states of water
in the water cycle.
• Recognise the importance of the water
cycle.
• Compare water in 3 states. • Show concern for water
as a limited natural
resource and be
responsible in conserving.

-- 52 of 87 --

52
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
About Systems:
A system is a whole consisting of parts that work together
to perform function(s). There are systems in nature such as
plant and human systems; as well as man-made systems
such as electrical systems. Understanding these systems
allows us to appreciate how parts influence and work
together to perform function(s).
Essential Takeaways:
• A system is made of different parts. Each part
has its own unique function.
• Different parts of a system influence and work
together to perform function(s).
Key Inquiry Questions:
• What is a system?
• How do different parts/systems work together to
perform function(s)?
• Why is it important to understand how
parts/systems work together?

-- 53 of 87 --

53
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Human System (Digestive System) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify the human systems in the body
and state their functions (digestive,
respiratory, circulatory, skeletal and
muscular).
Note:
- This learning outcome introduces
students to an overview of human
systems in the body. Detailed knowledge
of the muscular and skeletal systems
(such as names of the bones/muscles in
the body and descriptions of how they
work) are not required.
• Identify the parts in the human digestive
system (mouth, gullet, stomach, small
intestine and large intestine) and
describe their functions.
• Show curiosity in
questioning about the
structures or functions of
the body.

-- 54 of 87 --

54
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Human System (Respiratory and circulatory systems) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that air is made up of gases
such as nitrogen, carbon dioxide, oxygen
and water vapour.
• Identify the parts of the human
respiratory (nose, windpipe, lungs) and
circulatory systems (heart, blood, blood
vessels) and describe their functions.
Note:
- Detailed knowledge of respiratory system
(e.g., alveoli) and circulatory system
(e.g., heart chambers and valves) is not
required.
• Recognise the integration of the different
systems (digestive, respiratory and
circulatory) in carrying out life processes.
• Compare how plants, fish and humans
take in oxygen and give out carbon
dioxide.
• Compare the ways in which substances
are transported within plants and humans.
- Plants: Tubes that transport food and
water
- Humans: Blood vessels that transport
digested food, oxygen and carbon
dioxide
Note:
- The use of specific terms (xylem, phloem,
stomata, artery, vein, capillary) is not
required.
• Show objectivity by
seeking data and
information to validate
observations and
explanations about the
human body.

-- 55 of 87 --

55
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Human System (Respiratory and circulatory systems) (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that air is made up of gases
such as nitrogen, carbon dioxide, oxygen
and water vapour.
• Identify the parts of the human
respiratory (nose, windpipe, lungs) and
circulatory systems (heart, blood, blood
vessels) and state their functions.
Note:
- Detailed knowledge of respiratory system
(e.g., alveoli) and circulatory system
(e.g., heart chambers and valves) is not
required.
• Compare how plants and humans take in
oxygen and give out carbon dioxide.
Note:
- The use of specific terms (xylem, phloem
and stomata, artery, vein, capillary) is not
required.
• Show objectivity by
seeking data and
information to validate
observations and
explanations about the
human body.

-- 56 of 87 --

56
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Plant System (Plant parts and functions) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify the different parts of plants and
state their functions.
- Leaf
- Stem
- Root
Note:
- Food-carrying and water-carrying tubes
in the plant transport system are
introduced in the topic of Plant System
(Respiratory and Circulatory Systems) in
P5.
• Observe plant parts. • Show curiosity in exploring
the surrounding plants and
question what they find.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
plants.

-- 57 of 87 --

57
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Plant System (Respiratory and circulatory systems) (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify the parts of the plant transport
system and describe their functions.
Note:
- Recall of the relative positions of water-
carrying and food-carrying tubes is not
required.
- The use of specific terms (xylem and
phloem) is not required.
- The concept of transpiration pull is not
required.
• Investigate how food and water are
transported in the plant.
• Show objectivity by
seeking data and
information to validate
observations and
explanations about plant
parts and functions.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
plants.

-- 58 of 87 --

58
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Plant System (Respiratory and circulatory systems) (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise how water is transported from
the roots to other parts of the plant and
how food is transported from the leaves
to other parts of the plant.
Note:
- Recall of the relative positions of water-
carrying and food-carrying tubes is not
required.
- The use of specific terms (xylem and
phloem) is not required.
- The concept of transpiration pull is not
required.
• Observe how food and water are
transported in the plant.
• Show objectivity by
seeking data and
information to validate
observations and
explanations about plant
parts and functions.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible towards
plants.

-- 59 of 87 --

59
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Electrical System (P5 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that an electric circuit
consisting of an energy source (battery)
and other circuit components (wire, bulb,
switch) forms an electrical system.
• Show an understanding that a closed
circuit allows current to flow.
• Identify electrical conductors and
insulators.
• Construct simple circuits from circuit
diagrams.
• Investigate the effect of some variables on
the current in a circuit.
- Number of batteries (arranged in
series)
- Number of bulbs (arranged in series
and parallel)
• Show concern for the need
to conserve and to have
proper use and handling of
electricity.

-- 60 of 87 --

60
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Electrical System (P5 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that an electric circuit
consisting of an energy source
(battery) and other circuit components
(wire, bulb, switch) forms an electrical
system.
• State that a closed circuit allows
current to flow.
• Identify electrical conductors and
insulators.
• Construct simple circuits from circuit
diagrams.
• Investigate the effect of some variables on
the current in a circuit.
- Number of batteries (arranged in series)
- Number of bulbs (arranged in series)
• Show concern for the
need to conserve and to
have proper use and
handling of electricity.

-- 61 of 87 --

61
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
About Interactions:
Interactions are the actions between and within living and
non-living systems in the environment. Understanding
these interactions helps us see relationships between the
factors/ variables in the environment. We can also
appreciate the consequences of our actions and play our
part in conservation.
Essential Takeaways:
• There are interactions among us, living and non-
living things in the environment.
• Interactions within the environment can have
positive or negative impacts.
• Conservation is important to ensure continuity of
life and availability of resources.
Key Inquiry Questions:
• What are the types of interactions around us?
• How do interactions affect the environment and
us?
• Why is it important for us to conserve the
environment?

-- 62 of 87 --

62
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interaction of Forces (Magnets) (P3)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that a magnet can exert a
push or a pull.
• Identify the characteristics of magnets.
- Magnets can be made of iron or steel.
- Magnets have two poles. A freely
suspended bar magnet comes to rest
pointing in a North-South direction.
- Unlike poles attract and like poles
repel.
- Magnets attract magnetic materials.
Note:
- Recall of magnetic materials such as
nickel and cobalt is not required.
- Magnetic shielding and magnetic
induction are not required.
• Recognise uses of magnets in everyday
objects.
• Compare magnets, non-magnetic materials
and magnetic materials.
• Make a magnet by the stroke method and
the electrical method.
• Show curiosity in exploring
the uses of magnets in
everyday life.

-- 63 of 87 --

63
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interaction of Forces (Frictional force, gravitational force, elastic spring force) (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify a force as a push or a pull.
• Show an understanding of the effects of a
force.
- A force can move a stationary object.
- A force can speed up, slow down or
change the direction of motion.
- A force can stop a moving object.
- A force may change the shape of an
object.
• Recognise and give examples of the
different types of forces.
- Magnetic force
- Gravitational force
- Elastic spring force
- Frictional force
• Investigate the effect of frictional force on
the motion of objects.
• Investigate the effects of elastic spring
force.
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about forces.

-- 64 of 87 --

64
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interaction of Forces (Frictional force, gravitational force, elastic spring force) (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
Note:
- Direction of frictional force for “rolling
objects” such as wheels and balls is not
required.
- The use of specific terms such as ‘air
resistance’ and ‘water resistance’ is not
required.
• Recognise that objects have weight
because of the gravitational force acting
on the object.

-- 65 of 87 --

65
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interaction of Forces (Frictional force, gravitational force) (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify a force as a push or a pull.
• State the effects of a force.
- A force can move a stationary object.
- A force can speed up, slow down or
change the direction of motion.
- A force can stop a moving object.
A force may change the shape of an
object.
• Recognise and give examples of the
different types of forces.
- Magnetic force
- Gravitational force
- Frictional force
Note:
- Direction of frictional force for “rolling
objects” such as wheels and balls is not
required.
• Investigate the effect of frictional force on
the motion of objects.
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about forces.

-- 66 of 87 --

66
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interaction of Forces (Frictional force, gravitational force) (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
- The use of specific terms such as ‘air
resistance’ and ‘water resistance’ is not
required.
• Recognise that objects have weight
because of the gravitational force acting
on the object.

-- 67 of 87 --

67
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify the factors that affect the survival
of an organism.
- Physical characteristics of the
environment (temperature, light, water)
- Availability of food
- Types of other organisms
present (producers, consumers,
decomposers)
• Show an understanding of the effect on
organisms when the environment
becomes unfavourable (organisms adapt
and survive; move to other places or die).
• Show an understanding of the energy
pathway from the Sun through living things
and identify the roles of various organisms
(producers, consumers, predators, prey) in
a food chain and a food web.
• Observe, collect and record information
regarding the interacting factors within an
environment.
• Show care and concern for
Man’s impact on the
environment by being
respectful and responsible
towards the environment.

-- 68 of 87 --

68
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Differentiate among organism, population
and community.
- An organism is a living thing.
- A population is a group of organisms of
the same kind, living and reproducing
at a given place and time.
- A community consists of many
populations living together in a
particular place.
• Show an understanding that different
habitats support different communities
(garden, field, pond, seashore, tree,
mangrove swamp).

-- 69 of 87 --

69
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Show an understanding that adaptations
serve to enhance survival and can be
structural or behavioural.
- Cope with physical factors
- Obtain food
- Escape predators
- Reproduce by finding and attracting
mates or dispersing seeds/fruits
Note:
- Students are introduced to the types of
dispersal methods and physical
characteristics of different fruits and seeds
in the theme of Cycles. The focus in this
theme is to help students recognise that
physical characteristics are the “structural
adaptations” which help fruits and seeds in
their dispersal.

-- 70 of 87 --

70
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Give examples of man’s impact (both
positive and negative) on the environment.
Note:
- Positive impact [Conservation,
Reforestation]
- Negative impact [Depleting natural
resources, deforestation, pollution
(land/water/air), global warming]

-- 71 of 87 --

71
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify the factors that affect the survival
of an organism.
- Physical characteristics of the
environment (temperature, light, water)
- Availability of food
- Types of other organisms
present (producers, consumers,
decomposers)
• Recognise the energy pathway from the
Sun through living things and identify the
roles of various organisms (producers,
consumers, predators, prey) in a food
chain.
• Recognise that different habitats support
different organisms (garden, field, pond,
seashore, tree, mangrove swamp).
• Observe, collect, and record information
regarding the interacting factors within an
environment.
• Show care and concern for
Man’s impact on the
environment by being
respectful and responsible
towards the environment.

-- 72 of 87 --

72
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that adaptations serve to
enhance survival and can be structural or
behavioural.
- Cope with physical factors
- Obtain food
- Escape predators
- Reproduce by finding and attracting
mates or dispersing seeds/fruits
Note:
- Students are introduced to the types of
dispersal methods and physical
characteristics of different fruits and seeds
in the theme of Cycles. The focus in this
theme is to help students recognise that
physical characteristics are the “structural
adaptations” which help fruits and seeds in
their dispersal.

-- 73 of 87 --

73
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Interactions within the Environment (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Give examples of man’s impact (both
positive and negative) on the environment.
Note:
- Positive impact [Conservation,
Reforestation]
- Negative impact [Depleting natural
resources, deforestation, pollution
(land/water/air), global warming]

-- 74 of 87 --

74
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
About Energy:
Energy is required for things to work in everyday life. We use
various forms of energy for many different purposes. All living
things obtain energy and use it to carry out life processes.
Understanding this theme allows us to appreciate the
importance and uses of energy and the need to conserve it.
Essential Takeaways:
• Energy is required for things to work.
• There are various forms of energy and they can
be converted from one form to another.
• Some sources of energy can be depleted and we
play an important role in energy conservation.
Key Inquiry Questions:
• What are the different forms of energy around
us?
• How is energy used in everyday life?
• Why is it important to conserve energy?

-- 75 of 87 --

75
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Forms and Uses (Light) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that an object can be seen
when it reflects light or when it is a source
of light.
Note:
- The law of reflection is not required.
• Recognise that light travels in straight lines
and thus a shadow is formed when light is
completely or partially blocked by an
object.
• Investigate the variables that affect
shadows formed.
- Shape, size and position of object(s)
- Distance between light source-object
and object-screen
Note:
- The use of specific terms (transparent,
translucent, opaque) is not required.
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about light.

-- 76 of 87 --

76
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Forms and Uses (Heat) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Identify some common sources of heat.
• State that the temperature of an object is a
measurement of its degree of hotness.
• State that heat is a form of energy.
• Differentiate between heat and
temperature.
• Show an understanding that heat flows
from a hotter to a colder object/ region/
place until both reach the same
temperature.
• Relate the change in temperature of an
object to the gain or loss of heat by the
object.
• Measure temperature using a
thermometer and a datalogger with
temperature/heat sensors.
• Show objectivity by
seeking data and
information to validate
observations and
explanations about heat.

-- 77 of 87 --

77
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Forms and Uses (Heat) (P4)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• List some effects of heat gain/loss in our
everyday life.
- Contraction / expansion of objects
(solid, liquid and gas)
- Change in state of matter
• Identify good and poor conductors of heat.
- Good conductors: metals
- Poor conductors: wood, plastics, air,
rubber
Note:
- Recall of the rate of heat transfer of
specific materials (such as different types
of metals) is not required.

-- 78 of 87 --

78
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Forms and Uses (Photosynthesis) (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that living things need energy
from respiration to carry out life processes.
Note:
- The focus of respiration is on the release
of energy from food.
• Recognise that the Sun is our primary
source of energy (light and heat).
• Differentiate between the ways in which
plants and animals obtain energy.
• Investigate the requirements (water,
light energy and carbon dioxide) for
photosynthesis (production of sugar and
oxygen).
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about
photosynthesis.

-- 79 of 87 --

79
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Forms and Uses (Photosynthesis) (P6 Foundation)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that the Sun is our primary
source of energy (light and heat).
• Investigate the requirements (water,
light energy and carbon dioxide) for
photosynthesis (production of sugar and
oxygen).
• Show objectivity by using
data and information to
validate observations and
explanations about
photosynthesis.

-- 80 of 87 --

80
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Energy Conversion (P6 Standard)
Learning Outcomes
Core Ideas Practices Values, Ethics and Attitudes
• Recognise that energy from most of our
energy resources is derived in some ways
from the Sun.
• Recognise and give examples of the
various forms of energy.
- Kinetic energy
- Potential energy
- Light energy
- Electrical energy
- Sound energy
- Heat energy
Note:
- The use of specific terms (chemical
potential energy, gravitational potential
energy and elastic potential energy) is not
required.
• Investigate energy conversion from one
form to another.
• Show care and concern by
being responsible in
conserving energy in our
everyday life.

-- 81 of 87 --

81
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 6:
GLOSSARY OF TERMS

-- 82 of 87 --

82
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
6. GLOSSARY OF TERMS
No
. Term Description of meaning
1. analyse to identify the parts of objects, information or processes,
and the patterns and relationships between these parts
2. classify to group objects or events based on common
characteristics
3. communicate to transmit and receive information which is presented in
various forms – written, verbal, pictorial, tabular or
graphical
4. compare to identify similarities and differences between objects,
concepts or processes
5. construct to put a set of components together, based on a given plan
6. describe to write (using diagrams where appropriate) the main points
of a topic
7. differentiate to identify the differences between objects, concepts or
processes
8. evaluate to assess the reasonableness, accuracy and quality of
information, processes or ideas
9. formulate
hypothesis
to make a general explanation for a related set of
observations or events. It is an extension of inferring
10. generate
possibilities
to explore all the alternatives, possibilities and choices
beyond the obvious or preferred one
11. identify to select and/or name the object, event, concept or process
12. infer to explain or draw a conclusion based on observations,
data or information
13. investigate to find out answers to the questions or to verify the
hypotheses
14. list to give a number of points or items without elaboration
15. make
decisions
to establish and apply criteria to select from among
seemingly equal alternatives. The process of establishing
criteria involves consideration of the consequences and
values
16. measure to obtain a reading from a suitable measuring instrument
17. observe to obtain information through the use of the senses

-- 83 of 87 --

83
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
No
. Term Description of meaning
18. predict to assess the likelihood of an outcome based on prior
knowledge of how things usually turn out
19. recognise to identify facts, characteristics or concepts that are critical
to the understanding of a situation, event, process or
phenomenon
20. relate to identify and explain the relationships between objects,
concepts or processes
21. show an
understanding
to recall information (facts, concepts, models, data),
translate information from one form to another, explain
information and apply information
22. solve problem to analyse a problem and choose a relevant and/or
innovative solution in order to remedy or alter a problem
situation
23. state to give a concise answer with little or no supporting
argument
24. use apparatus
and equipment
to know the functions and limitations of various apparatus,
and develop the ability to select and handle them
appropriately for various tasks

-- 84 of 87 --

84
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
SECTION 7:
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

-- 85 of 87 --

85
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Members of the Primary Science Syllabus Resource and Development Committee are:
Name Designation Organisation
Sin Kim Ho Divisional Director CPDD1
Lee Lin Yee (Mdm) Director, Sciences CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Chin Tan Ying (Dr) Assistant Director, General
Science/ Master Specialist
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Charlene Seah (Mdm) Senior Curriculum
Specialist (Lower
Secondary Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Susan Koh Kia Lee (Mdm) Senior Curriculum Resource
Development Officer (Primary
Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Nurhida Binte Sapiie (Mdm) Curriculum Planning Officer
(Primary Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Reena Devi D/o Arjun Singh
(Ms)
Curriculum Resource
Development Officer (Primary
Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Ee Jia Ying (Ms) Curriculum Resource
Development Officer (Primary
Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Siti Rohaiyah Mohd
Tumpang (Ms)
Curriculum Planning Officer
(Primary Math)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Wendy Ong (Mdm) Curriculum Planning Officer
(Lower Secondary Science)
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Tan Jialin Grace (Ms) Curriculum Planning Officer
(Science Normal (Technical))
CPDD1
(Sciences Branch)
Tan Poh Hiang (Dr) Master Teacher Academy of
Singapore Teachers
Shi Jinghao Andy Senior Specialist (Gifted
Education)
CPDD1
(Gifted Education
Branch)

-- 86 of 87 --

86
RESTRICTED
FOR USE BY EDUCATION OFFICERS ONLY
Name Designation Organisation
Yong Fah Wui (Ms) Educational Technology
Officer
ETD
(Technologies for
Learning)
Lee Yew Jin Associate Professor National Institute of
Education
Ang Yu Jian Educational Support Officer Schools Division
(Uplift & Educational
Support Branch)
Ow Mun Hoe Lead Assessment Specialist Singapore
Examinations and
Assessment Board
Sharon Tan (Ms) Senior Assessment Specialist Singapore
Examinations and
Assessment Board
Pek Kwee Lan (Mrs) Principal Casuarina Primary
School
Chua Ye Ling (Mdm) Principal Poi Ching School
Chia Siew Chin (Mdm) Lead Teacher Canberra Primary
School
Lee Sook San (Ms) Head of Department
(Science)
East Spring Primary
School
Caelyn Wyndee Lim (Ms) Head of Department
(Science)
Greendale Primary
School
Doreen Teh (Mdm) Level Head (Science) Shuqun Primary
School
The Ministry of Education also wishes to acknowledge all Principals, Vice Principals,
Heads of Department / Subject Heads / Level Heads and teachers for their invaluable
feedback and contributions in the development of this syllabus.

-- 87 of 87 --

